# System-design-and-analysis

Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?

The Client in this project was a company called DriverPass.  The Owner of the company wanted to create a learning platform where students could sign up and take online driving courses, and exams, and schedule driving lessons with various plans.  The type of system they wanted to design was an online learning platform that allows students to take online courses, and exams, and schedule driving lessons.  The system should allow users to log in and view their course progress, choose courses, take exams, study, and verify DMV regulations.  

What did you do particularly well?

Something that I did well for this project was accurately acquiring business requirements from the company driverPass.  I was able to take an interview-like process and form conclusions on what the company wanted to see in its system design.  For the business requirements document, I was able to identify functional and non-functional system requirements.  These include things such as system performance, security, data processes, and data flows as well as how the system itself actually functions.  From the interview, we can paint a picture of what the client wants to see in their system and how they want to see it function.  Another thing that I believe that I did well on was creating the various UML diagrams and representing use cases.  These use cases represent actual system capabilities and what they should do.  For example, a use case for an ATM would be to withdraw cash which is one of the functions of an ATM.  It is important to understand our outline use cases to understand how to actually implement them in programming.  These UML diagrams give you a picture of the logic of the function and some of its attributes and objects especially when using a class diagram.  


If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?

One part of the documents that I would revise is my Use case diagram.  I had a few errors in my use case diagram leaving out certain actors that were important to the system.  I left out the DMV which is important in updating the system's DMV information.  The system should connect directly to the DMV's newest guidelines so that the website will be up to date.  I also left out the secretary which is vital for scheduling appointments.  I would improve this document by adding in the necessary characters and going into more detail with the systems processes such as verification for logins and the outcomes of student results.  I could have also gone into more depth about the database and how the system would be cloud-based to be able to access data from anywhere with the internet.  This is important because the owner of DriverPass wants to be able to access website data from anywhere for analysis.  

How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?

The way that I interpreted the user's needs for this system was through the clients themselves and the actual functionality of the system itself.  The clients gave specific descriptions of how they want the system to function and the different things it should be able to do.  With the business requirements document, I was able to outline the functionality of the system and what it actually had to be able to do such as allow students to take courses, display a user dashboard, allow users to view course and exam results as well as sign-up and login to the actual website. I also considered the actual users' needs by putting myself in their position.  If I Were a student on this website what would I want to see and be able to do?    It is important to consider user needs in system analysis and design because it allows you to create a system that caters to the user and allows them to use this system in a way that meets their needs and the client's needs.  This way both parties can be satisfied with the design of the system and the users will get a system that works well and performs well based on their needs.   

How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?

The way that I approached the designs and diagrams for the system was based on system logic and functionality.  I also utilized the different users of the system as well.  In order to design a whole system, you first need to understand the basic logic of the system and how it should work.  So with the DriverPass project, the platform is for learning and the platform should hold courses and exams.  The platform should also allow users to schedule and purchase driving lessons from the website.  So from this basic information, we can start to build diagrams for different functions and class diagrams to represent the objects and entities we may have in the system.  These come in the form of object and process models.  Object models are more specific and explain the object and entities of the system such as students, admins, courses, and exams.  These are all entities of the DriverPass system and they can utilize various functions.  These models also allow you to see relationships between objects.  Process models are more broad and basic which can represent the logic of the system and how it should flow but it is very basic.  Both these models are useful in designing a system from scratch to implementation.  
